# Spring Music

This is a sample application for using database services on [Tanzu Platform](https://tanzu.vmware.com/platform) with the [Spring Framework](https://spring.io) and [Spring Boot](https://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/).

This application has been built to store the same domain objects in one of a variety of different persistence technologies - relational database, document store, and key-value store. This sample, when generated by Tanzu Application Accelerator, allows you to choose the one most applicable to the type of data you need to store..

The application use Spring Java configuration and [bean profiles](http://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/boot-features-profiles.html) to configure the application and the connection objects needed to use the persistence stores.

## Building

This project requires Java version 21 or later to compile.

To build a runnable Spring Boot jar file, run the following command:

```shell
./gradlew clean assemble
```

## Running the application locally

### Starting the database server

Start the redis server using:

```shell
docker run --rm --name redis -p 6379:6379 -d redis
```
The application can be started locally using the following command:

```shell
java -jar build/libs/redis-music-1.0.0.jar
```

Access the application by opening your browser using the URL [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)

## Configuring your Tanzu Platform build environment

### Prerequisites

1. Tanzu CLI and the apps plugin v0.2.0 which are provided as part of [Tanzu Platform](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Platform/index.html). Installation instructions can be found at [VMware Tanzu Platform Product Documentation - Before you begin](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Platform/SaaS/create-manage-apps-tanzu-platform-k8s/getting-started-deploy-app-to-space.html#before-you-begin-0).

2. You have access to a space for your project, and you have used `tanzu login` to authenticate and configure your current Tanzu context, and you have set your project and space using `tanzu project use` and `tanzu space use` respectively.

### Configure an image registry to use for building the app

Before you can build your app, you need to specify the registry where the resulting image from the build can be stored.

```sh
tanzu build config --containerapp-registry REGISTRY
```

> Where `REGISTRY` is your container image registry location. For example, `my-registry.io/my-corp-apps/{name}` or `docker.io/<your-docker-id>/{name}` if you use Docker Hub. Note that use of literal `{name}` is required, and it will be replaced with your apps name when you build.

## Configuring your app environment

Change to the root directory of your generated app.

### About the ContainerApp

The project contains a `ContainerApp` manifest file that can be used when building and deploying the app. To review the content of this file run:

```sh
cat .tanzu/config/redis-music.yml
```

### Configure HTTP Ingress Routing

If you want to expose your application with a domain name and route traffic from the domain name to the deployed application, see [Adding HTTP Routing to an Application](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Tanzu-Platform/SaaS/create-manage-apps-tanzu-platform-k8s/how-to-ingress-to-app.html).


## Deploying the application to Tanzu Platform for Kubernetes

### Build and deploy the app

Change to the root directory of your generated app.

#### Building from local source

You can build using source on your local disk.

To build the app you can run this command:

```sh
tanzu build --output-dir ./prebuilt
```

#### Deploying the app to Tanzu Platform for Kubernetes

Start the app deployment by running:

```sh
tanzu deploy --from-build ./prebuilt
```

#### Building and deploying the app in one step

Instead of building and deploying in separate steps, you can build and deploy the app with a single command.
Just run:

```sh
tanzu deploy
```

### Create the service and bind it to the app


You can deploy a Redis instance using a provided service type.
To list available service types use:

```shell
tanzu services type list
```

Then, create the service instance using:

```shell
tanzu services create RedisCluster/music
```

When prompted, bind the service to your deployed app.

You can list the services you have created using:

```shell
tanzu services list
```

#### Scale the number of instances

When the service you created becomes `Ready`, then you can run this command to scale the app to 1 instance:

```shell
tanzu app scale redis-music --instances=1
```

### Use port-forward to access an app instance

You can use the `app port-forward` command to access your app instance's endpoint.
Just select the instance you want when prompted.
Use the following command to start the port-forward:

```shell
tanzu app port-forward redis-music --port 8080
```

Then you can access the app using http://localhost:8080.

